# Digital Obsidian Garden + GitHub Pages
This is the template to be used together with the [Digital Garden Obsidian Plugin](https://github.com/oleeskild/Obsidian-Digital-Garden).

Rendering and deployment is done via [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). So you can use the GitHub account and repository you need anyway to fully deploy your site (no Vercel, Netlify, Docker, etc. needed).

Libraries have also been updated to more recent versions. If there is any problems with this (i.e. your deployment fails), please open an issue with the specific error message.

## Setup
1. Download and install the community plugin [Digital Garden](obsidian://show-plugin?id=digitalgarden) in Obsidian.
1. Next, you will need a GitHub account. If you don't have this, create one [here](https://github.com/signup).
1. Create a new repository using this one as a template (green button in the top right). Keep "Include all branches" unchecked. IMPORTANT: it's mandatory you use `[your username].github.io` as the name for the new repository and make it public (unless you have a paid GitHub pro account).
1. Setup the plugin in Obsidian by entering the repo name (`[your username].github.io`), your username and an access token.
1. Back in your GitHub repository go to `Settings > Pages` and make sure "Deploy from a branch" and `gh-pages` is selected as the branch name, keep folder at /(root)
    - The gh-pages branch should be auto-generated by GitHub. You can track the progress in the "Actions" tab of the repository, look for "pages build and deployment". If you cannot select it, wait a minute, then refresh the page or come back to this step after doing the next one about publishing a note.
1. In Obsidian publish any note with the `dg-home` and `dg-publish` properties set to true to generate an index file for your site. Publishing via the plugin will automatically create a commit to the main branch of your new repo, which in turn will start the workflow generating your site.
1. After a minute or so your site should be available under `https://[your username].github.io`
    - If your site only shows a rendering of this readme and not your notes, go to back to Settings > Pages and make sure you have selected the gh-pages branch (click "Save" next to it)
    - If it shows a 404 page, you have not published a note as the index file (see previous step)

(this mostly follows the official [Getting Started](https://dg-docs.ole.dev/getting-started/01-getting-started/) guide, just skips the steps using Vercel)
